---
reference_id: PMID:40693769
title: Using DNA affinity purification sequencing (DAP-seq) to identify in vitro binding sites of potential Novosphingobium aromaticivorans DSM12444 transcription factors.
authors:
- Myers KS
- Linz AM
- Baumgart LA
- Zhang Y
- Blaby I
- Mewalal R
- Ng V
- Noguera DR
- Donohue TJ
journal: Microbiol Resour Announc
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1128/mra.00260-25
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Using DNA affinity purification sequencing (DAP-seq) to identify in vitro binding sites of potential Novosphingobium aromaticivorans DSM12444 transcription factors.
**Authors:** Myers KS, Linz AM, Baumgart LA, Zhang Y, Blaby I, Mewalal R, Ng V, Noguera DR, Donohue TJ
**Journal:** Microbiol Resour Announc (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1128/mra.00260-25](https://doi.org/10.1128/mra.00260-25)

## Content

1. Microbiol Resour Announc. 2025 Aug 14;14(8):e0026025. doi:
10.1128/mra.00260-25.  Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Using DNA affinity purification sequencing (DAP-seq) to identify in vitro 
binding sites of potential Novosphingobium aromaticivorans DSM12444 
transcription factors.

Myers KS(1), Linz AM(1), Baumgart LA(2), Zhang Y(2), Blaby I(2), Mewalal R(2), 
Ng V(2), Noguera DR(1)(3), Donohue TJ(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Energy Institute and Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)U.S. Department of Energy, Joint Genome Institute, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, California, USA.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

Genome-wide binding sites of 44 putative transcription factors (TFs) from 
Novosphingobium aromaticivorans DSM12444 were analyzed using DNA affinity 
purification sequencing. We report that 32 of these TFs have at least one area 
of enrichment. These data will help better understand aromatic metabolism and 
other features of N. aromaticivorans biology.

DOI: 10.1128/mra.00260-25
PMCID: PMC12352068
PMID: 40693769

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.