---
reference_id: PMID:33505029
title: Genomic mechanisms of climate adaptation in polyploid bioenergy switchgrass.
authors:
- Lovell JT
- MacQueen AH
- Mamidi S
- Bonnette J
- Jenkins J
- Napier JD
- Sreedasyam A
- Healey A
- Session A
- Shu S
- Barry K
- Bonos S
- Boston L
- Daum C
- Deshpande S
- Ewing A
- Grabowski PP
- Haque T
- Harrison M
- Jiang J
- Kudrna D
- Lipzen A
- Pendergast TH 4th
- Plott C
- Qi P
- Saski CA
- Shakirov EV
- Sims D
- Sharma M
- Sharma R
- Stewart A
- Singan VR
- Tang Y
- Thibivillier S
- Webber J
- Weng X
- Williams M
- Wu GA
- Yoshinaga Y
- Zane M
- Zhang L
- Zhang J
- Behrman KD
- Boe AR
- Fay PA
- Fritschi FB
- Jastrow JD
- Lloyd-Reilley J
- Martínez-Reyna JM
- Matamala R
- Mitchell RB
- Rouquette FM Jr
- Ronald P
- Saha M
- Tobias CM
- Udvardi M
- Wing RA
- Wu Y
- Bartley LE
- Casler M
- Devos KM
- Lowry DB
- Rokhsar DS
- Grimwood J
- Juenger TE
- Schmutz J
journal: Nature
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-03127-1
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Genomic mechanisms of climate adaptation in polyploid bioenergy switchgrass.
**Authors:** Lovell JT, MacQueen AH, Mamidi S, Bonnette J, Jenkins J, Napier JD, Sreedasyam A, Healey A, Session A, Shu S, Barry K, Bonos S, Boston L, Daum C, Deshpande S, Ewing A, Grabowski PP, Haque T, Harrison M, Jiang J, Kudrna D, Lipzen A, Pendergast TH 4th, Plott C, Qi P, Saski CA, Shakirov EV, Sims D, Sharma M, Sharma R, Stewart A, Singan VR, Tang Y, Thibivillier S, Webber J, Weng X, Williams M, Wu GA, Yoshinaga Y, Zane M, Zhang L, Zhang J, Behrman KD, Boe AR, Fay PA, Fritschi FB, Jastrow JD, Lloyd-Reilley J, Martínez-Reyna JM, Matamala R, Mitchell RB, Rouquette FM Jr, Ronald P, Saha M, Tobias CM, Udvardi M, Wing RA, Wu Y, Bartley LE, Casler M, Devos KM, Lowry DB, Rokhsar DS, Grimwood J, Juenger TE, Schmutz J
**Journal:** Nature (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41586-020-03127-1](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-03127-1)

## Content

1. Nature. 2021 Feb;590(7846):438-444. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-03127-1. Epub 2021
 Jan 27.

Genomic mechanisms of climate adaptation in polyploid bioenergy switchgrass.

Lovell JT(#)(1), MacQueen AH(#)(2), Mamidi S(#)(3), Bonnette J(#)(2), Jenkins 
J(#)(3), Napier JD(2), Sreedasyam A(3), Healey A(3), Session A(4)(5), Shu S(4), 
Barry K(4), Bonos S(6), Boston L(3), Daum C(4), Deshpande S(4), Ewing A(4), 
Grabowski PP(3), Haque T(2), Harrison M(7), Jiang J(8), Kudrna D(9), Lipzen 
A(4), Pendergast TH 4th(10)(11)(12), Plott C(3), Qi P(10), Saski CA(13), 
Shakirov EV(2)(14), Sims D(3), Sharma M(15), Sharma R(16), Stewart A(3), Singan 
VR(4), Tang Y(17), Thibivillier S(18), Webber J(3), Weng X(2), Williams M(3), Wu 
GA(4), Yoshinaga Y(4), Zane M(4), Zhang L(2), Zhang J(17), Behrman KD(2), Boe 
AR(19), Fay PA(20), Fritschi FB(21), Jastrow JD(22), Lloyd-Reilley J(23), 
Martínez-Reyna JM(24), Matamala R(22), Mitchell RB(25), Rouquette FM Jr(26), 
Ronald P(27)(28), Saha M(17), Tobias CM(29), Udvardi M(17), Wing RA(9), Wu 
Y(30), Bartley LE(31)(32), Casler M(33)(34), Devos KM(10)(11)(12)(35), Lowry 
DB(8)(36), Rokhsar DS(4)(5)(37)(38), Grimwood J(3), Juenger TE(39), Schmutz 
J(40)(41).

Author information:
(1)Genome Sequencing Center, HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 
Huntsville, AL, USA. jlovell@hudsonalpha.org.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, 
USA.
(3)Genome Sequencing Center, HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 
Huntsville, AL, USA.
(4)Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
Berkeley, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Plant Biology, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(7)Plant Genetic Resources Conservation Unit, USDA-ARS, Griffin, GA, USA.
(8)Department of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, 
USA.
(9)Arizona Genomics Institute, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(10)Institute of Plant Breeding, Genetics and Genomics, University of Georgia, 
Athens, GA, USA.
(11)Department of Crop and Soil Sciences, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, 
USA.
(12)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.
(13)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, Clemson University, Clemson, 
SC, USA.
(14)Department of Biological Sciences, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, USA.
(15)School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.
(16)School of Computational and Integrative Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi, India.
(17)Noble Research Institute LLC, Ardmore, OK, USA.
(18)Department of Agronomy and Horticulture, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, 
NE, USA.
(19)Department of Agronomy, Horticulture and Plant Science, South Dakota State 
University, Brookings, SD, USA.
(20)Grassland, Soil and Water Research Laboratory, USDA-ARS, Temple, TX, USA.
(21)Division of Plant Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.
(22)Environmental Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, IL, 
USA.
(23)Kika de la Garza Plant Materials Center, USDA-NRCS, Kingsville, TX, USA.
(24)Plant Breeding Department, Antonio Narro Agrarian Autonomous University, 
Saltillo, Mexico.
(25)Wheat, Sorghum, and Forage Research Unit, USDA-ARS, Lincoln, NE, USA.
(26)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, Texas A&M University, 
Overton, TX, USA.
(27)Department of Plant Pathology and the Genome Center, University of 
California, Davis, Davis, CA, USA.
(28)Joint BioEnergy Institute, Emeryville, CA, USA.
(29)Western Regional Research Center, USDA-ARS, Albany, CA, USA.
(30)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, Oklahoma State University, 
Stillwater, OK, USA.
(31)Department of Microbiology and Plant Biology, University of Oklahoma, 
Norman, OK, USA.
(32)Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, 
USA.
(33)US Dairy Forage Research Center, USDA-ARS, Madison, WI, USA.
(34)DOE Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(35)DOE Center for Bioenergy Innovation, Oak Ridge, TN, USA.
(36)DOE Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, MI, USA.
(37)Center for Advanced Bioenergy and Bioproducts Innovation, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(38)Chan-Zuckerberg Biohub, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(39)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, 
TX, USA. tjuenger@mail.utexas.edu.
(40)Genome Sequencing Center, HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 
Huntsville, AL, USA. jschmutz@hudsonalpha.org.
(41)Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA. jschmutz@hudsonalpha.org.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2021 Feb;590(7846):394-395. doi: 10.1038/d41586-021-00212-x.

Long-term climate change and periodic environmental extremes threaten food and 
fuel security1 and global crop productivity2-4. Although molecular and adaptive 
breeding strategies can buffer the effects of climatic stress and improve crop 
resilience5, these approaches require sufficient knowledge of the genes that 
underlie productivity and adaptation6-knowledge that has been limited to a small 
number of well-studied model systems. Here we present the assembly and 
annotation of the large and complex genome of the polyploid bioenergy crop 
switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). Analysis of biomass and survival among 
732 resequenced genotypes, which were grown across 10 common gardens that span 
1,800 km of latitude, jointly revealed extensive genomic evidence of climate 
adaptation. Climate-gene-biomass associations were abundant but varied 
considerably among deeply diverged gene pools. Furthermore, we found that gene 
flow accelerated climate adaptation during the postglacial colonization of 
northern habitats through introgression of alleles from a pre-adapted northern 
gene pool. The polyploid nature of switchgrass also enhanced adaptive potential 
through the fractionation of gene function, as there was an increased level of 
heritable genetic diversity on the nondominant subgenome. In addition to 
investigating patterns of climate adaptation, the genome resources and 
gene-trait associations developed here provide breeders with the necessary tools 
to increase switchgrass yield for the sustainable production of bioenergy.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-03127-1
PMCID: PMC7886653
PMID: 33505029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.